Research Abstract: The National Football League’s draft is one of the most important events in the creation of a successful franchise in professional American football. Selecting players as part of the draft process, however, is difficult, as a multitude of factors affect decisions to opt for a player over another; a few of these include collegiate statistics, team need and fit, and physical potential. In this paper, we utilize a machine learning approach, with various types of models, to optimize the NFL draft and in turn, enhance team performances. We compare the selections made by the system to the real athletes selected, and assess which of the picks would have been more impactful for the respective franchise. The specific investigation allows for further research by altering the weighting of specific factors and their significance in this decision-making process, to land on the ideal player based on what a specific team desires. Using artificial intelligence in this process can generate consistent and certain results, rather than relying on risk-based traditional methods as most franchises do, and the simulation of various draft scenarios with artificial intelligence prior to the draft may aid clubs in considering several possibilities before making a selection. An economic impact associated with the research follows, as improved selections increase club profit, in terms of ticket sales, merchandise revenue, and more. Outside of a draft scope, player evaluation plays an important role in athletic associations’ decisions to retain or release players. 
